I asked him about this and
he
was in the ABMA and was editor of the American
Veterinary Medical Association Journal. So he
had been
papers and so on. And I described to him what I
wanted. And he said, well, I think you've
described Red Mouth. I said, well, who is Red
Mouth? And he told me. He was in the armed forces in
Ireland. And he'd just about finished his tenure
in the army. told him who he was and what he did, and I
got to checking up on it, and yeah, I think that's
the guy I want. And so then I got a hold of him and got
him down here, and he stayed with it 10 years, and
then he died, and he lived in Bryan.
That gave us some stuff on research. How do you
spell his name? M-A-U-R-E-R. well that's another
related
are there other people you would suggest we we go
talk brett meyer would be a good one to talk to now
he's 80 years old and he's uh kind of like kind of
like i am i lose some names names are like your
fingers you know you know them as well as your
fingers but can't call them well one of the things i
kind of wanted to do I don't know enough about it,
but, you know, the military side, you know,
there's been a lot of military posts here in Texas.
There's been a lot of military activities here in
Texas. And we used to run mule trains, the Army did,
even the late 30s out to Toyville all the time. It
may be just with a paragraph, I don't know. Do you
remember a few years ago when Venezuela equine
encephalitis came to Texas? Absolutely. Fred
Maurer was monitoring that day by day by day. Well,
first month by month, and then week by week, and
finally day by day. And he kept telling the
authorities of the feet, hey, this is going to come
across that river. what are we going to do when it
comes across that river? And they said, well, we
can't do anything until it gets across the river.
Unfortunately, the State Department couldn't do
anything in Mexico. They didn't have an agreement
in Mexico. So they couldn't do anything to stop it
in Mexico. And Fred Meyer was trying to get them,
well, look, let's go into Mexico and stop it down
there. Don't let it get over here. I said, no, we
can't do that. Because they did that with Hooker
Mound, and they did that with, you know, they had
Americans used to wander across the border all the
time, rounding up stairs and inoculating
animals. For rabies, we've done some of that. Fred
Maurer, now, was the guy who was on top of that, and
he was busy, busy, busy in the office downstairs
during that time. he was not the one who made the
vaccine, but he was instrumental in getting the
vaccine made. And the Army had about 10,000 doses
of vaccine or something like that. I don't
remember the number, but a whole bunch of vaccine.
And then when it came across the river and they
began to have it in South Texas, well, they went in
there with a mass vaccination. And that was a
picture perfect containment of a disease. That's
a good case, yeah. That's a good one.
Picture-perfect containment. It did not let him
get out of cases. That's good. And Fred Meyer is a
guy that Ramrod, he didn't do all the work, but he's
the guy that pushed it. Well, some of those kinds of
stories that we're looking for that One of the
things I think we'd kind of like to do, you know, the
TVMA has its own political agenda, obviously. And
one of the things they want to do, as I gather, is
they want to share with high school students and
everyone else an image of veterinary medicine
which is positive, upbeat. And I think we all want
to do that. But we need to have some kind of good,
positive building. It needs to be an accurate
presentation. Well, of course,
what you've been charged with, I'm sure, is that it
is a history of veterinary medicine in Texas. It's
not a history of the Texas Veterinary Medicine.
No, that's right. It's not a history of the College
of Veterinary Medicine. No, that's right. It's a
history of veterinary medicine in Texas. And
that's the way it should be. accomplish the whole
thing. Now there'll be a part of this and part of
that in it, but he'll cover the whole bit as best he
can. But it's something like this, you know, the
story of Dr. Brown, you know, would be a
significant... Yeah, that's what, maybe you, if
you can follow up on him, that would be good. Is he
still in good health? Yeah, oh yeah, yeah. As I
said, he's Yeah, like all of us. I don't
know how I got to be a historian, because I sure
can't remember names and dates and places.